

Self-Efficacy and Work Satisfaction of Non-Teaching Personnel
Mary Jane A. Intao
Guimaras State University

ABSTRACT

This study aimed to determine the level of self-efficacy and the work satisfaction of Non-Teaching personnel of St. Vincent College all located in Panay, Philippines for the academic year 2024-2025. The respondents of the study were the Non-Teaching personnel of St. Vincent College all located in Panay, Philippines. There were total of forty- two (42) respondents from the three (3) college campuses of St. Vincent College in Panay 6, Philippines, namely: St. Vincent College of Science and Technology (Leganes), St. Vincent College (Pototan), St. Vincent College of Business and Accountancy (Capiz).The data were collated, tabulated, processed and statistically analyzed. The statistical tools used were the frequency count, percentage, mean, the Mann-Whitney U-Test, Kruskal-Wallis H-Test, and Spearman Rho. The findings of the study showed that the respondents had "very high" self-efficacy, and "very high" work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel. This study recommended that since non-teaching personnel demonstrated very high levels of self-efficacy and work satisfaction, the school administration should continue and enhance programs that promote employee empowerment and confidence. Initiatives such as wellness programs, mentoring, and regular feedback sessions can help sustain their positive work attitude and reinforce their commitment to institutional goals, the school should organize regular training, workshops, and seminars that focus on administrative efficiency, technological literacy, interpersonal communication, and leadership development. Continuous learning opportunities will not only increase the personnel's competence and self-efficacy but also ensure that they remain adaptable to educational reforms and institutional innovations and the school should reinforce existing employee recognition programs by acknowledging exemplary service, dedication, and innovation among non-teaching personnel. Awards, certificates, and simple tokens of appreciation can go a long way in boosting morale and sustaining a high level of work satisfaction and performance.

Keywords: Self-Efficacy, Work Satisfaction, Non-Teaching Personnel

INTRODUCTION

Background of the Study

      The Department of Education issued DepEd Order No. 2 series of 2015 providing for the Policy Guidelines in the Establishment and Implementation of the Results-Based Performance Management System (RPMS) in the Department of Education (DepEd). The Department issued these abovementioned guidelines to provide comprehensive guidelines for the adoption of the Civil Service Commission's (CSC) Strategic Performance Management System (SPMS) in organization.

      The guidelines stipulated the specific mechanisms, criteria and processes for the performance target setting, monitoring, evaluation and development planning for schools and offices, covering all officials and employees, school-based and non-school-based, in the Department holding regular Plantilla positions. Personnel under contracts of service/job order and LGU-funded employees shall likewise be covered, but for purposes of performance evaluation only(www.deped.gov.ph, 2025).

      This system was readily adopted by the private sector with modifications including the private institutions. Specifically, both the teaching and non-teaching force of the St. Vincent College in Panay, Philippinesnamely:St. Vincent College of Science and Technology (Leganes),St. Vincent College (Pototan), St. Vincent College of Business and Accountancy (Capiz) had adopted this type of evaluation system.



      The current study therefore aimed to assessed the private colleges or schools affecting their work satisfaction and self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel, particularly in areas on job security, development and training opportunities, remuneration, communication, and work environment. By increasing the job satisfaction of non- teaching personnel, the turn-over rate will be reduced. It is in this premise therefore that this study was conducted.

Statement of the Problem

      This study aimed to determine the level of self-efficacy and the work satisfaction of Non-Teachingpersonnel of St. Vincent College all located in Panay, Philippines for the academic year 2024-2025.
Specifically, it sought to answer the following questions.
      1. What is the self-efficacy of the non-teaching personnel and when they were classified as to sex, educational attainment, monthly income, work assignment and type of position?
      2. What is the work satisfaction of the non-teaching personnel and when they were classified as to sex, educational attainment, monthly income, work assignment and type of position?
      3. Are there significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of the non-teaching personnel when they are classified as to sex, educational attainment, monthly income, work assignment and type of position?
      4. Are there significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of the non-teaching personnel when they are classified as to sex, educational attainment, monthly income, work assignment and type of position?
      5. Is there a significant relationship between the self-efficacy and the work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel?

METHODOLOGY

      The study utilized a descriptive research design to investigate the level of self-efficacy and work satisfaction among 42 non-teaching personnel from the three campuses of St. Vincent College in Panay Island, Philippines-St. Vincent College of Science and Technology (Leganes), St. Vincent College (Pototan), and St. Vincent College of Business and Accountancy (Capiz)-employing total population purposive sampling to include all available respondents. A researcher-made questionnaire served as the primary data-gathering instrument and consisted of three parts: demographic profile (sex, educational attainment, monthly income, work assignment, and type of position), level of self-efficacy, and level of work satisfaction. The instrument underwent expert validation using Good and Scates criteria, and was pilot-tested among non-teaching personnel from another institution, yielding high reliability coefficients of 0.872 for self-efficacy and 0.944 for work satisfaction through Cronbach's alpha. The respondents were predominantly female, college graduates, and non-supervisory personnel, many of whom were assigned to accounting and administrative offices. Permission to conduct the study was secured from institutional administrators, and participation was voluntary, with informed consent obtained from all respondents and confidentiality strictly observed during data collection. The survey was administered personally by the researcher, and the retrieved questionnaires were encoded and processed using SPSS at a 0.05 level of significance. Descriptive statistics-frequency counts, percentages, and means-were used to summarize respondent characteristics and levels of self-efficacy and work satisfaction, while Mann-Whitney U and Kruskal-Wallis tests were used to determine significant differences across demographic classifications, and Spearman Rho was applied to assess the relationship between the two key variables.

RESULTS and DISCUSSIONS

Level of Self-Efficacy of Non-Teaching Personnel

To determine the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel, the researcher used the mean.
      Data in Table 3 revealed thatnon-teaching personnel as an entire group, had -very high? level ofself-efficacy (M=4.30).

      Taken as an entire group, the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel, showed that the items in the questionnaire getting high means showed that the respondents knew that theyhad the ability to grow with efforts (M= 4.73); and theywere always able to fulfilled their duties and responsibilities(M=4.68). This meant that the respondents had -very high? level of self-efficacy.




      On the other hand, the conduct of the study also showed that the items in the questionnaire getting the low means showed that theywere capable of successfully completing tasks even when under pressure (M=4.07); they achieved what they set out to do (M=4.14); they felt comfortable managing and prioritizing multiple administrative tasks efficiently (M=4.14); and they usually thought of solutions if they were in trouble (M=4.17), indicating that the non-teaching personnelhad -high? level ofself-efficacy.
The rest of the items had means indicating that the respondents had -very high? level ofself-efficacy.

Table 1. Level of Self-Efficacy of Non-Teaching Personnel
IndicatorsMeanDescriptionAs a non-teaching personnel, I . . .was always able to fulfil my duties and responsibilities.4.68Very Highwas a person who had do things today what could be put off until tomorrow.4.31Very Highusually handled whatever come my way.4.33Very Highusually thought of solutions if I am in trouble.4.17Highdealt efficiently with unexpected events.4.29Very Highcan do most tasks very well.4.24Very Highachieved what I set out to do.4.14Highfelt comfortable managing and prioritizing multiple administrative tasks efficiently.4.14Highwas capable of successfully completing tasks even when under pressure.4.07Higheffectively communicated important information.4.26Very Highwas comfortable communicating and working effectively with my colleagues .4.27Very Highremained calm when facing difficulties because I can rely on my coping abilities.4.24Very Highhandled unforeseen situations.4.30Very Highhad the ability to grow with efforts.4.73Very Highfocused on my progress instead of being discouraged when struggling to accomplish something difficult.4.36Very HighTotal Mean4.30Very HighSCALE: 4.21 - 5.00 Very High (VH); 3.41 - 4.20 High (H); 2.61 - 3.40 Moderate (M); 1.81 - 2.60 Low (L); 1.00 - 1.80 Very Low (VL)

Level of Work Satisfaction of Non-Teaching Personnel
To determine the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel, the researcher used the mean.

      Data in Table 9 revealed thatnon-teaching personnel as an entire group, had -very high? level of work satisfaction (M=4.60).

      Taken as an entire group, the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel, showed that the items in the questionnaire getting high means showed that the respondents knew that theywere satisfied with their salary (M=4.88); they had a reasonable salary for the amount of work they do. (M=4.85); they were provided with insurance (health, life, accident and among others) (M=4.84); and they received recognition for good accomplishments (M=4.84). This meant that the respondents had -very high? level of work satisfaction.

      On the other hand, the conduct of the study also showed that the items in the questionnaire getting the low means showed that theywere provided with leave credits for personal purposes (M=4.24); and they liked their workplace because it was accessible from home (M=4.26),indicating that the non-teaching personnelhad -very high? level of work satisfaction.

The rest of the items had means indicating that the respondents had -very high?level ofwork satisfaction.



Table 2. Level of Work Satisfaction of Non-Teaching Personnel
IndicatorsMeanDescriptionAs a non-teaching personnel, I . . .Was provided with leave credits for personal purposes.4.24Very HighLiked our workplace because it is accessible from home.4.26Very HighReceived clear instructions from my superiors.4.43Very HighWas satisfied with my salary.4.88Very HighWas provided with workload which was reasonable.4.52Very HighHad a reasonable salary for the amount of work I do.4.85Very HighHad a clear understanding of my monthly salary and how it arrived in my net pay.4.67Very HighWas provided with insurance (health, life, accident and among others).4.84Very HighWas happy with the amount of salary increases considering the present cost of living in our country.4.64Very HighWas delegated with tasks and responsibilities that were fair and just.4.64Very HighReceived recognition for good accomplishments.4.84Very HighWorked harmoniously with my colleagues in safe surroundings.4.57Very HighWas treated fairly where tasks and workloads were properly distributed.4.60Very HighExchanged conversations within the organization in varried platforms.4.55Very HighHad smoothly communicated on job-related matters with co-workers.4.52Very HighTotal Mean4.60Very HighSCALE:	4.21 - 5.00 Very High (VH); 3.41 - 4.20 High (H); 2.61 - 3.40 Moderate (M); 1.81 - 2.60 Low (L); 1.00 - 1.80 Very Low (VL)

Differences in the Level of Self-Efficacy of Non-Teaching PersonnelWhen Classified As To Sex, Educational Attainment and Type of Position

      The data that follow showed the differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they were classified as to variables sex, educational attainment and type of position, using the Mann U-Whitney test.

      There were no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they were classified according to their sex, the u-value was 111.500 and the p-value was 0.227. The p-value was higher than
0.05 level of significance, which meant that there were no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non- teaching personnel when they are classified according totheir sex. Therefore, the null hypothesis stating that -there are no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their sex?, was not rejected.

      There were no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their educational attainment, the u-value was 50.000 and the p-value was 0.259. The p-value was greater than 0.05 level of significance, which meant that there were no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according totheir educational attainment. Therefore, the null hypothesis stating that -there are no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their educational attainment?, was not rejected.

      Likewise, there were no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their type of position, the u-value was 100.000 and the p-value was 0.771. The p- value was greater than 0.05 level of significance, which meant that there were no significant differences in thelevel of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according totheir type of position. Therefore, the null hypothesis stating that -there are no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their type of position?, was not rejected.



Table 3. Differences in the Level of Self-Efficacy of Non-Teaching PersonnelWhen Classified As To Sex, Educational Attainment and Type of Position
Profilemean rankU-valuep-valueremarksSexMale27.03113.5000.227Not SignificantFemale16.93Educational AttainmentCollege22.1850.0000.259Not significantPost Graduate15.00Type of PositionSupervisory20.17100.0000.771Not significantNon-supervisory21.720.05 alpha level of significance.


Differences in the Level of Self-Efficacy of Non-Teaching PersonnelWhen Classified As To Monthly Income and Work Assignment

      The data that follow showed the differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they were classified as to their monthly incomeand work assignment, using the Kruskal Wallis test.

      There were no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their monthly income, the H-value was 16.867 and the p-value was 0.245. The p-value was greater than 0.05 level of significance, which meant that there were no significant differences in the level of self- efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified as to their monthly income. Therefore, the null hypothesis stating that -there are no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their monthly income?, was not rejected.

      Likewise, there were no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to work assignment, the H-value was 5.905 and the p-value was 0.116. The p-value was greater than 0.05 level of significance, which meant that there were no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to work assignment, the null hypothesis stating that there are no significant differences in the level of self-efficacy of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to work assignment, was not rejected.


Table 4. Differences in the Level of Self-Efficacy of Non-Teaching PersonnelWhen Classified As To Monthly Income and Work Assignment
Profilemean rankH-valuep-valueremarksMonthly Income< 20k20.5616.8670.245Not Significant21k-30k29.64> 30k12.30Work AssignmentHealthPersonnel27.002.4450.295Not significantAdministrativePersonne l16.81AccountingPersonnel21.660.05 alpha level of significance.

      Differences in the Level of Work Satisfaction of Non-Teaching PersonnelWhen Classified As To Sex, Educational Attainment and Type of Position

      The data that follow showed the differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they were classified as to variables sex, educational attainment and type of position, using the Mann U-Whitney test.



      There were no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they were classified according to their sex, the u-value was 154.000 and the p-value was 0.094. The p-value was higher than 0.05 level of significance, which meant that there were no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according totheir sex. Therefore, the null hypothesis stating that -there are no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their sex?, was not rejected.

      There were no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their educational attainment, the u-value was 61.000 and the p-value was 0.509. The p- value was greater than 0.05 level of significance, which meant that there were no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according totheir educational attainment. Therefore, the null hypothesis stating that -there are no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their educational attainment?, was not rejected.

      Likewise, there were no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their type of position, the u-valuewas 79.500 and the p-value was 0.292. The p-value was greater than 0.05 level of significance, which meant that there were no significant differences in thelevel of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according totheir type of position. Therefore, the null hypothesis stating that -there are no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their type of position?, was not rejected.

Table 5. Differences in the Level of Work Satisfaction of Non-Teaching PersonnelWhen Classified As To Sex, Educational Attainment and Type of Position
0.05 alpha level of significance.

Profilemean rankU-valuep-valueremarksSexMale24.89154.0000.094Not significantFemale18.70Educational AttainmentCollege21.8961.0000.509Not significantPost Graduate17.75Type of PositionSupervisory16.7579.5000.292Not significantNon-supervisory22.29
Differences in the Level of Work Satisfaction of Non-Teaching PersonnelWhen Classified As To Monthly Income and Work Assignment

      The data that follow showed the differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they were classified as to their monthly income and work assignment, using the Kruskal Wallis test.

      There were no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their monthly income, the H-value was 4.311 and the p-value was 0.116. The p-value was greater than 0.05 level of significance, which meant that there were no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified as to their monthly income. Therefore, the null hypothesis stating that -there are no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to their monthly incomet?, was not rejected.

      Likewise, there were no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to work assignment, the H-value was 4.739 and the p-value was 0.094. The p- value was greater than 0.05 level of significance, which meant that there were no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to work assignment, the null hypothesis stating that there are no significant differences in the level of work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel when they are classified according to work assignment, was not rejected.



Table 6. Differences in the Level of Work Satisfaction of Non-Teaching PersonnelWhen Classified As To Monthly Income and Work Assignment

Profilemean rankH-valuep-valueremarksMonthly Income< 20k19.504.3110.116Not significant21k-30k25.83> 30k17.50Work AssignmentHealthpersonnel26.674.7390.094Not significantAdministrativepersonnel13.75Accountingpersonnel22.610.05 alpha level of significance.

Relationship between the Level of Self-Efficacy and the Level of Work Satisfaction of Non-Teaching Personnel
       To find out the relationships between the level of self-efficacy and the work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel, the researcher used the Spearman Rho.

      The computer processed Spearman Rho revealed an r-value of 0.466and p-value of 0.569between the level of self-efficacy and the work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel. The p-value is greater than .005 level of significance, indicating that there was no significant relationship between the level of self-efficacy and the work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel. The null hypothesis therefore stating that there are no significant differences between the level of self-efficacy and the work satisfaction of non-teaching personnel, was not rejected.

Table 7. Relationship Among the Level of Self-Efficacy and the Level of Work Satisfaction of Non-Teaching Personnel

Variablemeanr-valuep-valueremarksSelf-Efficacy4.250.4660.569Not SignificantWork Satisfaction4.550.05alpha level of significance.

Conclusions
1. All the non-teaching personnel of the St. Vincent College believe that they have the ability to complete task or achieve a goal. This indicates that, as a group, they possess a strong belief in their capabilities to perform their assigned tasks effectively and to manage challenges in their respective work environments. Such a high level of self- efficacy suggests that these employees exhibit confidence, initiative, and perseverance in fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
2. All the non-teaching personnel of St. Vincent College feel contented with their jobs, financially, emotionally, and physically. Despite the differences in demographic and employment characteristics, the consistently -very high? level of work satisfaction across all groups reveals that these factors do not substantially influence their overall contentment in the workplace. Both male and female employees, regardless of educational background or income bracket, appear to derive a similar sense of fulfillment from their work.
3. The non-teaching personnel of St. Vincent College have similar level of self-efficiency and work satisfaction. Despite all variables,the non-teaching personnel exhibited a consistently high sense of confidence in performing their duties and a strong sense of fulfillment in their jobs. This consistency suggests a shared organizational culture and work environment that equally supports and empowers employees, regardless of their background or position. The findings imply that both male and female employees, those with varying levels of education or income, and those assigned to different work areas experience similar levels of self-belief and job satisfaction.
4. The level of non-teaching personnel work satisfaction is not in relation to their self-efficacy. This is to be expected as self-efficacy and work satisfaction, while both important psychological constructs influencing employee behavior, do not always directly correlate with each other. Self-efficacy refers to an individual's belief in their



capacity to perform specific tasks successfully, whereas work satisfaction pertains to the overall emotional response one has toward their job and work environment.

Recommendations
Based on the findings and conclusions, the researcher would like to put forth thefollowing recommendations:
1. Since non-teaching personnel demonstrated very high levels of self-efficacy and work satisfaction, the school administration should continue and enhance programs that promote employee empowerment and confidence. Initiatives such as wellness programs, mentoring, and regular feedback sessions can help sustain their positive work attitude and reinforce their commitment to institutional goals.
2. The school should organize regular training, workshops, and seminars that focus on administrative efficiency, technological literacy, interpersonal communication, and leadership development. Continuous learning opportunities will not only increase the personnel's competence and self-efficacy but also ensure that they remain adaptable to educational reforms and institutional innovations.
3. The administration should continue to foster an atmosphere of mutual respect, teamwork, and inclusivity among all employees academic and non-academic alike. By ensuring that policies are fair and non-discriminatory, and that all employees feel valued regardless of sex, educational attainment, or position, the institution can maintain harmony and strengthen its organizational culture.
4. The school should reinforce existing employee recognition programs by acknowledging exemplary service, dedication, and innovation among non-teaching personnel. Awards, certificates, and simple tokens of appreciation can go a long way in boosting morale and sustaining a high level of work satisfaction and performance.
5. It is recommended that the school periodically evaluate the self-efficacy and work satisfaction levels of its non- teaching personnel through surveys, interviews, or performance appraisals. The feedback gathered can serve as a basis for improving policies, designing more responsive development programs, and addressing any concerns that may affect employee motivation and productivity.

REFERENCES

[1] Abir Makki, Dr. Bassem Kandil (2023); The Perceptions of Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff about School Climate in a Sample of Private Schools in Beirut; https://www.ijern.com/journal/2023/May-2023/11.pdf, 2025

[2] Athanas M.Garaba (2023); Non-Teaching Staff in the Education System of Tanzania: A Review Paper on Training Practices and Service Delivery; www.ijycgst.ph, 2025

[3] Benosa, Tiffany Odette B (2024); Personal Capabilities of the Non-Teaching Personnel and Client Satisfaction; www.ijisrt.com, 2025

[4] Bandura's 2002; theory on self-efficacy; www.researchgate.com, 2025

[5] Bella Marie L. Fabian (2024); ob Satisfaction Among CEU Teaching and Non-Teaching Employees: Basis for A Proposed Employee Retention Program; www.researchagate.com, 2025

[6] Christian O. Angus (2024); Job Burnout Affecting Job Performance Among Teaching and Non-Teaching Personnel: Bases for Intervention; www.journals.e.palli.com, 2025

[7] Dr. Ongesa Tom Nyamboga (2024); Recognition Strategy and Performance of Non-Teaching Staff at University of Eldoret in Kenya; www.ijmra.com, 2025.

[8] Dennis Olike (2023); Use of Job Satisfaction Initiatives in Enhancing Performance of Non-Teaching Employees in Selected Public Universities in Western Kenya; www.iiste.org, 2025.

[9] Feb Marie Llona (2023); Spending Behavior of Non-Teaching Personnel in Private Higher Educational Institutions in Albay Province; www.researchgate.com, 2025

[10] Malik Mustaf (2023); Factors Affecting Job Performance of Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff in Higher Education Levels in Oman; www.bibliomed.com, 2025

[11] Madelline Rico (2023); Knowledge and Practice of Personal Finance of Non-Teaching Staff in a Private University in Cebu City; www.ijmaberjournal.com, 2025

[12] Jessica M. Songcog (2023); University of Mindanao, Holy Trinity College of General Santos City, Philippines; www.buscompress.com, 2025



[13] Department of Education; DepEd Manual, 2025

[14] Herzberg's 2004; Motivator-Hygiene Theory; www.jstor.com, 2023

[15] Jessica Songcog (2022); A Structural Equation Model on Job Satisfaction among Non-Teaching Personnel in Private Higher Education Institution in Region XII, Philippines; www.jstor.com, 2025

[16] Maslow's; Hierarchy of Needs Theory; 2000; www.merriam-webster.com, 2025

[17] Non-Teaching Staff;www.deped.gov.ph, 2025

[18] Senen Machmud (2022); The Influence of Self-Efficacy on Satisfaction and Work-Related Performance; retrieved from https://researchleap.com/influence-self-efficacy-satisfaction-work-related-performance/, 2025

[19] Self-Efficacy; Merriam Webster Dictionary, 2025

[20] Trochin, 2020; The Research Design

[21] The Role of Non-Teaching Staff in School; www.deped.gov.ph, 2025

[22] Work Satisfaction; Merriam Webster, 2025




